docs/topics/03_ObjectAscertainingMFs.md, before:

# Object Ascertaining Mental Factors

## Aspiration

`A knower that, upon observing some intended thing, seeks it`

`It has the function of acting as a support for making effort`

### The process of producing effort and pliancy that aspiration supports

```
Maitreya's Discrimination of the Middle and the Extremes (stanza 4.5ab) says:
The support and that supported by it and
The cause and the result.
```

* cause = faith of conviction in excellent qualities
* support = aspiration
* supported = striving/effort
* result = pliancy

### Types of Aspiration

* aspiration wishing to meet
* aspiration wishing not to be separated
* aspiration that seeks

## Belief / Conviction

`A knower which holds the object that has been ascertained by its valid cognition, thinking, "It is just like this and not otherwise."`

`It has the function of non-captivation`

### "Non-captivation" means

`One has gained firm belief in the object that one has ascertained, an opponent cannot steer one away from it`

## Mindfulness

`It is a non-forgetfulness of the mind with respect to a familiar object.`

`It has the function of non-distraction`

Three features:

* objective feature = a familiar object
* subjective aspect feature = non-forgetfulness having observed the object
* functional feature = non-distraction

## Concentration

`A one-pointedness of mind that, within observing an imputed thing, is continuously set upon it`

`It has the function of activing as a support for knowledge`

### "Function as a support for knowledge" means

`Through the force of analysis with the wisdom of individual investigation in dependence on calm-abiding in which the mind is internally set in equipoise, one achieves the special insight observing modes and varieties`

## Wisdom

`A knower that individually differentiates the faults and good qualities of things that are to be examined`

`It has the function of overcoming doubt`

Commit message:

Enhanced the "Object Ascertaining Mental Factors" document by adding multiple YouTube video embeds for better understanding, expanding the section on Wisdom with detailed explanations of the Four Reasonings for Examining Phenomena, and refining the content on aspiration, concentration, and their functions.

docs/topics/03_ObjectAscertainingMFs.md, after:

# Object Ascertaining Mental Factors


## Aspiration

`A knower that, upon observing some intended thing, seeks it`

`It has the function of acting as a support for making effort`

<iframe width="800" height="450" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/3XcoJNhEJMA" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>


### The process of producing effort and pliancy that aspiration supports

```
Maitreya's Discrimination of the Middle and the Extremes (stanza 4.5ab) says:
The support and that supported by it and
The cause and the result.
```

* cause = faith of conviction in excellent qualities
* support = aspiration
* supported = striving/effort
* result = pliancy

### Types of Aspiration

* aspiration wishing to meet
* aspiration wishing not to be separated
* aspiration that seeks

## Belief / Conviction

`A knower which holds the object that has been ascertained by its valid cognition, thinking, "It is just like this and not otherwise."`

`It has the function of non-captivation`

<iframe width="800" height="450" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/L1TFBlq3dJM" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

### "Non-captivation" means

`One has gained firm belief in the object that one has ascertained, an opponent cannot steer one away from it`

## Mindfulness

`It is a non-forgetfulness of the mind with respect to a familiar object.`

`It has the function of non-distraction`


<iframe width="800" height="450" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/X9EF5-0tbho" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Three features:

* objective feature = a familiar object
* subjective aspect feature = non-forgetfulness having observed the object
* functional feature = non-distraction

## Concentration / Meditative Stabilisation

`A one-pointedness of mind that, within observing an imputed thing, is continuously set upon it`

`It has the function of activing as a support for knowledge`

<iframe width="800" height="450" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/TKngqZEFfgA" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

### "Function as a support for knowledge" means

`Through the force of analysis with the wisdom of individual investigation in dependence on calm-abiding in which the mind is internally set in equipoise, one achieves the special insight observing modes and varieties`

## Wisdom

<iframe width="800" height="450" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/g2KVnnpo2qE" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

`A knower that individually differentiates the faults and good qualities of things that are to be examined`

`It has the function of overcoming doubt`

### The Four Reasonings for Examining Phenomena

<iframe width="800" height="450" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/oGP1kt921ic" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

- Wisdom relies on four types of reasoning to analyze phenomena, presented in the text by Kachen Yeshe Gyeltsen as:
    - **Functional Reasoning**: Examines the function or action of a phenomenon. For example, fire’s function is to burn tinder, earth’s is to support, water’s is to absorb and collect, and wind’s is to develop or increase. Anger’s function is to harm, while wisdom’s function is to act as an antidote to incompatible states like ignorance or self-grasping.
    - **Reasoning of Dependence**: Analyzes how results depend on their causes and conditions. For instance, different crops (rice, wheat, barley) arise from distinct causes, and negative results like suffering stem from negative causes, while positive results like happiness depend on positive causes.
    - **Logical Reasoning**: Establishes truths through rational, tenable arguments not contradicted by valid cognition. For example, a person is impermanent because they are produced by causes and conditions, which are themselves impermanent and exhaustible, leading to the person’s eventual cessation.
    - **Reasoning of Essential Nature**: Identifies the nature of phenomena without needing logical proof. For example, fire’s nature is to burn upwards, and water’s is to flow downwards, observable directly without further reasoning.

- Wisdom arises from causes and conditions like study, reflection, and meditation, leading to changes in a person’s behavior and understanding.
- For example, understanding the negative consequences of actions like killing or stealing through wisdom leads to behavioral change, stopping such actions.
- Wisdom’s function is to clarify faults and virtues, enabling informed choices and reducing ignorance, as opposed to afflicted wisdom (e.g., manipulative business tactics).
